---
layout: post
title: Postfix Calculator
subtitle: Blog Post 4
---
## Postfix Calculator
#### Mazyar Azmi
#### 11-10-20

1. The average of all the final values is 529.91.
2. A loop is used to read each expression. If it sees a number, the number is pushed into a previously empty stack, but if the for loop runs into an operator, that operator is then performed on the top two items in the stack, which must be numbers, and the new result replaces them in the stack. At the end of the evaluation for an expression, the stack should only have one number in it, which is then transferred to a list that holds the results from all of the expressions. The stack is then empty, and can be used again for the next expression.
3. The first thing I did was iron out my stack code.  I made sure that it was returning exactly what I needed.  Next, I basically copied what I did in the iris lab to read the csv file.  However, I wasn't sure exactly how the code was going to work, so I evaluated a few of the expressions on paper, then tried doing them using a "stack."  Once I figured out how I was going to implement the stack, I wrote the evaluate method, which consisted of a for loop to run through each row in the data, another for loop to run through each object in each row, and a few if/else statements to tell the code what to do.  The basic idea was that the for loop would send numbers to a stack, then if the for loop saw an operator, the operator would be performed on the top two objects in the stack, and the result would replace those objects in the stack, and that process would continue until the end of the expression for each expression, and those final values would be averaged and returned using an average method. At this point, something was wrong, so I asked Lucca for advice. Apparently, there was something still wrong with my stack code, so I fixed that with his help. However, something was still wrong with my calculator, so Mr. Lee had a look at it. Apparently, when using a for loop to scan for certain variables, you can't just list the variables individually in the "if" statement. The correct way would be to make a list that contains those variables, which is then referenced in the "if" statement. Once that issue was fixed, the code worked!